

Guiding Objectives


Focus Physical Education Standards:  
1.18 Design and perform a creative dance, combining locomotor patterns with intentional changes in speed and direction.


5.5 Contribute ideas and listen to the ideas of others in cooperative problem-solving activities.


Common Core Standard
SL.1. Engage effectively in a range of collaborative discussions (one-on-one, in groups, and teacher-led) with diverse partners on grade 5 topics and texts, building on others’ ideas and expressing their own clearly.


Key Cognitive Concepts:  


Students must know:
How to work together to create a creative dance using the locomotor skills they have learned previously and incorporating intentional changes in speed and direction. 


How to create and count steps to move cohesively as a group to the beat of the music


 How to share ideas and listen to others as they work together to create the dance


Key Fitness/Skills Concepts




Students must be able to:
Demonstrate locomotor patterns: run, jog, skip, gallop, hop, jump, slide, leap


Demonstrate understanding of movement concepts such as speed and direction


Assessments


Summative Assessment(s):  
Peer Assessment (Dance Performance):
Students will perform their dance for another group who will use a rubric to determine whether the performing group used at least two different locomotor patterns in their dance and added in changes in speed and direction.
Peer Assessment (Group Dynamics- Cooperation)
Students will complete a peer assessment to assess if group members are contributing ideas and listening to the ideas of others while creating their dance together.
Formative Assessments:  


Locomotor skill sheet partner assessment at beginning of the unit. 
Teacher observation and/or video self-assessment of performance of “No Rompas Mi Corazon y El Payaso Del Rodeo” 
Daily assessment of group members: 
(Are all group members contributing ideas, Are all group members listening to the ideas of others respectfully)
(3x5 card exit slip) 
Pre Assessment(s):  
Locomotor skills partner assessment 
Warm-up: Locomotor skills warm-up: Tag game or other type of warm-up where students demonstrate knowledge of the basic locomotor skills.


Instruction


Key Terms/Academic Language
Locomotor patterns: Body movements that get you from one place to another. 
Speed: How fast a movement is performed
Direction: Which way you perform a movement 
Beat: The basic pulse of the dance

Learning Progression:  








 
Day 1:  Pre-Assessment day: Review locomotor patterns with a locomotor skills tag or warm-up game. 


Student learning outcome: Students will be able to demonstrate the basic locomotor patterns
Partner assessment task sheet on correctly performing locomotor patterns 


Day 2: Sample Dance: No Rompas Mi Corazon and El Payaso del Rodeo
Student learning outcomes: 
Students will:
Demonstrate the steps for both dances.
Identify the locomotor skills used, along with the changes in speed and direction
“No Rompas Mi Corazon” 


Teach dance part by part without music first then add music
 “El Payaso Del Rodeo” 


The steps are the same as “No Rompas Mi Corazon but faster. 


Day 3: Sample Dance: The Electric slide
Student learning outcomes: 
Students will:
Demonstrate the steps for the electric slide.
Identify the locomotor skills used and the change in direction. 
Teach dance part by part without music first then add music




Day 4: Form student groups (3-4 students) 


Student learning outcome: Students will contribute and listen to ideas of others while creating a creative dance using locomotor patterns with changes in speed and direction
Give students a list of locomotor skills to use to create their own dance as a group
Students begin working in groups to create their dance
Teacher- record and monitor groups
Closure: quick assessment of group mates on cooperation as a group (3x5 card exit slip)


Day 5: Continued practice day 


Student learning outcomes
Students will: 
Present their creative dance to another group 
Use the rubric to determine whether the performing group used at least two different locomotor patterns in their dance and added in changes in speed and direction.
Teacher monitors groups 
Students will perform their dance for another group who will give them feedback based on the rubric. 


Day 6: Continued group practice day
Student learning outcome: Students will continue to contribute and listen to ideas of others while creating a creative dance using locomotor patterns with changes in speed and direction


Teacher monitors groups


Day 7: Performance Day: 


Student learning outcome:
 Students will:
Present their creative dance to another group
Use the rubric to determine whether the performing group used at least two different locomotor patterns in their dance and added in changes in speed and direction.
Groups pair up with another group and take turns performing and assessing each other. 
Peer Dance Assessment to be completed by the group observing the dance.
Peer Collaboration Assessment to be completed by the groups about their group members 
Select a few groups who want to perform for the class. 


Differentiating Instruction: 
Vocab cards for academic vocabulary
Pre-pick groups based on skill or behavior
Create skill groups for dance instruction with helpers who have mastered and students who are having trouble




Pre-Planning




Prerequisite Skills:  


Knowledge of locomotor patterns
Ability to work together in a group respectfully 


Equipment/Facilities:  
Pencils, 3x5 cards, Peer assessments, Speaker, Device to play music, projector (if you want to video your students and play it for them to self-assess), MHL or mini HDMI cable to connect to projector
Additional Resources:




No Rompas Mi Corizon:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3p0swPQeSXM




Payaso del Rodeo:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SW59uTq4CKg










